the Health Care system in Gaza is
collapsing another casualty of Israel's
war on Hamas that is the assessment from
Shan Casey this church has been turned
into an impatient word the World Health
organization's emergency medical team
coordinator who just returned to un
headquarters after spending 5 weeks in
Gaza every time I went to the hospitals
I saw evidence again and again of the
simultaneous
uh humanitarian catastrophe that's
unfolding we see it every day in Gaza uh
getting worse and worse and the collapse
of the health system day by day Casey
estimates that only 15 hospitals in Gaza
are functioning but only partially he
saw how bad the situation is firsthand
these are a couple of his reports from
last month I'm back in
ALA the largest hospital in Gaza for the
third time this week where it's still a
case of absolute
misery we're in Alexa hospital
where I just left the resuscitation room
where a 9-year-old boy named oet was
being treated basically with sedation to
ease his suffering as he
dies when asked what was needed the most
to help the Gaza Health System cope
Casey was clear a ceasefire that he said
would be the most effective and
immediate way to end the suffering
Gabriel oando Al jazer at the United
Nations